Integrate monitoring SNS topic with Slack (#4011) (#4768)
DataBiosphere/azul: README.md

tags that should be provisioned is noted in
[src/azul/deployment.py:tags](src/azul/deployment.py).

### 3.1.3 AWS Chatbot integration with Slack

Set up AWS Chatbot to receive SNS topic notifications in a Slack workspace. 

> AWS Chatbot needs to be set up through the AWS console for each Slack workspace

Reviewer: This feature should be optional.

in each AWS account. When configuring the Chatbot client, make sure to select
the Slack (not the Amazon Chime) client type. You'll be redirected to Slack's
authorization page in order to request permission for AWS Chatbot to access your
Slack workspace. Sign in with the account in the Slack workspace you want to
integrate with. When that step is completed, you should see the Slack workspace
name and ID listed in the AWS Chatbot console, the displayed ID should match the

> value in the `azul_slack_workspace_id` variable in `environment.py`. Finally,

Reviewer: It should be the other way around. The variable needs to be set to the displayed ID. The default should be None and setting it should enable the feature.

the `azul_slack_channel_id` should match the ID of the channel where the AWS
Chatbot notifications are to be delivered. One can find the channel ID by
signing in to Slack through a browser. Select the desired channel and copy the
last URL path element, notice that the anterior element matches the Slack

> Workspace ID. Alaternatively, right-click the channel in the Slack App and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspace ID. Alternatively, right-click the channel in the Slack App and
```

Just use this method. It is the simplest option.

tags that should be provisioned is noted in
[src/azul/deployment.py:tags](src/azul/deployment.py).

### 3.1.3 AWS Chatbot integration with Slack

> Enable AWS Chatbot, optionally by configuring the `slack_integration`

Reviewer: This needs more introduction. It is not clear what the Slack integration does.

tags that should be provisioned is noted in
[src/azul/deployment.py:tags](src/azul/deployment.py).

### 3.1.3 AWS Chatbot integration with Slack

AWS Chatbot integration with Slack enables monitoring of AWS Cloud events via
AWS Chatbot app notifications. AWS Chatbot processes notifications from SNS
topics, where alarms and cloud events are set up, and forwards them to the

> configured Slack channel. These notificatios in Slack are from `@aws`, the AWS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configured Slack channel. These notifications in Slack are from `@aws`, the AWS
```

> AWS Chatbot integration with Slack enables monitoring of AWS Cloud events via
> AWS Chatbot app notifications. AWS Chatbot processes notifications from SNS
> topics, where alarms and cloud events are set up, and forwards them to the
> configured Slack channel. These notifications in Slack are from `@aws`, the AWS
> Chatbot app. This serves the purpose of increasing the team's awareness of
> events and facilitating a rapid response to alarms. Enable this optional feature
> by populating the `azul_slack_integration` environment variable.

Reviewer: Please raise in PL. I want to give additional feedback.

```suggestion
Azul deployments can make use of an AWS Chatbot instance to forward messages from the SNS monitoring topic to a channel in a Slack workspace. Both the topic and the Chatbot instance are shared by all deployments that are collocated in one AWS account and that have monitoring enabled (via the `AZUL_ENABLE_MONITORING` environment variable). Most the AWS Chatbot integration is managed by Terraform [add link to next section] but the following manual steps must be performed once per AWS account containing such deployments, before Terraform can take care of the rest. The AWS Chatbot integration can be enabled or disabled separately for each AWS account by setting the `azul_slack_integration` environment variable in the configuration for the main deployment in that account. If it is disabled in an account, these steps can be skipped in that account.
```

> Set up Chatbot through the AWS console for each Slack workspace in each AWS

Reviewer: Break this up into a numbered list of steps.

account. When configuring the Chatbot client, ensure that the Slack client type
is selected. You'll be redirected to Slack's authorization page in order to

> request permission for AWS Chatbot to access the Slack workspace. Sign in with

Reviewer 2: AWS is requesting permission. We are providing that permission.
```suggestion
provide permission for AWS Chatbot to access the Slack workspace. Sign in with
```

> the account in the Slack workspace you want to integrate with. When that step is

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what account this is referring to. The operator's slack account? a dedicated chatbot account?

> completed, you should see the Slack workspace name and ID listed in the AWS
> Chatbot console, the displayed ID should then be used to set the
> `workspace_id` key value in the `azul_slack_integration` variable, in the
> environment file, it is imperative that this field is retrived from the AWS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
completed, you should see the Slack workspace name and ID listed in the AWS
Chatbot console. Use the displayed ID to populate the `workspace_id`
attribute of  the `azul_slack_integration` variable in the environment file.
It is imperative that the value for this field is retrieved from the AWS
```

> Chatbot console. Finally, the `channel_id` key value should match the ID of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chatbot console. Finally, populate the `channel_id` attribute with the ID of the
```

channel where the AWS Chatbot notifications are to be delivered. Obtain the
channel ID by right-clicking the channel in Slack and selecting *View channel

> details*, find the channel ID at the bottom of the *About* tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
details* and finding the channel ID at the bottom of the *About* tab.
```

tags that should be provisioned is noted in
[src/azul/deployment.py:tags](src/azul/deployment.py).

### 3.1.3 AWS Chatbot integration with Slack

Azul deployments can make use of an AWS Chatbot instance to forward messages
from the SNS monitoring topic to a channel in a Slack workspace. Both the topic
and the Chatbot instance are shared by all deployments that are collocated in

> one AWS account and that have monitoring enabled (via the
> `AZUL_ENABLE_MONITORING` environment variable). Most of the AWS Chatbot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one AWS account and that have monitoring enabled via the
`AZUL_ENABLE_MONITORING` environment variable. Most of the AWS Chatbot
```

> integration is managed by [Terraform](#314-shared-resources-managed-by-terraform)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integration is [managed by Terraform](#314-shared-resources-managed-by-terraform)
```

but the following manual steps must be performed once per AWS account containing
such deployments, before Terraform can take care of the rest. The AWS Chatbot
integration can be enabled or disabled separately for each AWS account by
setting the `azul_slack_integration` environment variable in the configuration
for the main deployment in that account. If it is disabled in an account, these
steps can be skipped in that account.

1. In the AWS Chatbot console, under *Configure a chat client*, select the

>    ``Slack`` *Chat client* option, then click the *Configure client* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   *Slack* chat client option, then click the *Configure client* button.
```

> 2. Once redirected to Slack's authorization page, you might be required to sign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once redirected to Slack's authorization page, you may be prompted to sign
```

   in using your UCSC account, in order to provide permission for Chatbot to
   access the Slack workspace. When this step is completed, you should see the
   workspace name and ID listed in the console.

3. Use the ID displayed in the console to set the `workspace_id` attribute of

>    the `azul_slack_integration` variable in the environment file.

Reviewer: Specify which file.

> 4. Set the `channel_id` attribute with the ID of the appropriate channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Set the `channel_id` attribute to the ID of the appropriate channel.
```

   Get the channel ID by right-clicking the channel in Slack and selecting

>    *View channel details*, the ID is listed at the bottom of the *About* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   *View channel details*. The ID is listed at the bottom of the *About* tab.
```

such deployments, before Terraform can take care of the rest. The AWS Chatbot
integration can be enabled or disabled separately for each AWS account by
setting the `azul_slack_integration` environment variable in the configuration
for the main deployment in that account. If it is disabled in an account, these
steps can be skipped in that account.

1. In the AWS Chatbot console, under *Configure a chat client*, select the
   *Slack* chat client option, then click the *Configure client* button.
   
2. Once redirected to Slack's authorization page, you may be prompted to sign
   in using your UCSC account, in order to provide permission for Chatbot to
   access the Slack workspace. When this step is completed, you should see the
   workspace name and ID listed in the console.

3. Use the ID displayed in the console to set the `workspace_id` attribute of
   the `azul_slack_integration` variable in the main deployment's environment
   file for that account.

4. Set the `channel_id` attribute to the ID of the appropriate channel. Get the
   channel ID by right-clicking the channel in Slack and selecting *View channel
   details*. The ID is listed at the bottom of the *About* tab.

> ### 3.1.4 Shared resources managed by Terraform

Reviewer: This breaks an intra-document link.
